Thanks for letting me be here. The state rep, the mayor’s here as well. I want to thank him very much. Look, yesterday, the White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows went on television to admit to the country that the administration wasn’t even trying, trying anymore to deal with the pandemic. He said and I quote, “We’re not going to control the pandemic.” A Washington Post headline today says is, White House gives up on trying to slow virus spread. No caveats, just a deadly admission. Early in this pandemic some of you have had to cover me for a long time, Trump called himself a wartime president fighting a war against an invisible enemy. I’ve been saying for months as you well know that he waved the white flag all the way back then. He wasn’t doing much at all. Some people said I was being harsh, that I was being unfair. The White House was coming right out now and admitting what I said months ago was absolutely true. And look how many people are dead. 220,000 and it’s expected as many as another 200,000 could die between now and the end of the year.And he said, “We’re not going to control it.” Not going to control it. The bottom line is Donald Trump is the worst possible president, the worst possible person to try to lead us through this pandemic. I don’t think he just either doesn’t have any idea what to do or he just doesn’t care. On Friday, Dr. Tony Fauci, the nation’s most respected infectious disease expert publicly acknowledged that the president has not even met with his COVID team for months, for months. Even worse, Saturday, Donald Trump said that, “the COVID 19 count was wasn’t really going up. Everything was leveling out.” He suggested the doctors were inflating the numbers.Catch this. Because doctors get more money. What in the hell’s the matter with this man? A thousand doctors and nurses have given their lives trying to save lives. And he’s said the reason they’re talking about testing is that they want to make more money. Mr. President, more than 1,000 healthcare workers have lost their lives fighting COVID. Doctors, nurses, they’re not profiting, they’re dying. And you remember during the debate, whatever you want to call it that. During the debate, Trump said that, “We’re learning to live with this COVID. No. He’s asking us to learn to die with it. Folks, this has got to end. We can in fact end this crisis. If he would only get together with the House and Senate, work out a compromise on the spending bills that are out there in order to deal with everything from safely open our schools. It will cost $200 billion to do it, but it’s worth doing it. We should do it. We can. No, no, no, no, no. There is a question about whether or not it’s a lifetime appointment. I’m not going to attempt to change that at all. There’s some literature among constitutional scholars about the possibility of going from one court to another court, not just always staying the whole time in the Supreme Court. But I have made no judgment, my word. My word is about I made no judgment. There are just a group of serious constitutional scholars who have a number of ideas how we should proceed from this point on. And that’s what we’re going to be doing. I’m going to give them 180 days god willing if I’m elected from the time I’m sworn in to be able to make such a recommendation. I’m going to be going to Iowa. I’m going to Wisconsin. I’m going to Georgia. I’m going to Florida and maybe other places as well. There’s a lot we’ve been doing as well in terms of being online and social … excuse me. Everything from fundraising efforts to making sure we meet. I met today with a group of leaders in the democratic party laying out where we’re going to go, getting their input and like so. We’re constantly, there has not been a day that hadn’t been a 12-hour day yet. wer class sizes, more teachers, ventilation PPP, the masks, gloves, all the sanitation. The businesses will be able to be open if we provide the same kind of help, which we said we would do. There’s so much more to do. Testing and tracing, we should be pouring billions of dollars into determining how we get rapid testing, rapid testing. So you know within hours whether or not the test is negative or positive. Many places you have to wait some from five up to six or seven days. He’s not doing what needs to be done. And look, folks, I promise you this. I’m never going to give up. You know, Mr. President, you have to have a little bit of shame, just a little bit of shame because people are dying. Here’s the point I want to make. Let me say it clearly. More people are going to die as many as 200,000 suggested by some. And it’s pointed out if you just wore a mask, kept social distancing, got tested where we can save within now and the end of the year over a 100,000 American lives. I’m not going to give up. I don’t know what we’ll inherit from January the 21, but the rate he’s going it’s not going to be good, but we’re going to be able to make. And by the way, I’m happy to take some questions from the press, but let me make it clear. I’m not shutting down oil fields. I’m not eliminating fracking. I’m investing in clean energy and we’re going to make sure that we don’t continue to subsidize the oil companies. There’s two estimates. They get somewhere between 25 billion and 40 billion in subsidies. That money should go in to making sure we do a lot of other good things. So with that, why don’t I take? Yes, sir. Look, If you have children and you were raised, all parents are taught that the example you set impacts on how your kids react. When you’re a boss of an operation, the example you set, what you do matters to the rest of the company. Well, the words of a president and the actions of a president, they matter and matter a great deal. And when the President of United States puts on these super spreader events, you saw what happened when she was announced. All the people, including his family, thank God they seem to be okay. All the people came down with COVID.
I just hope he is willing to have learned a lesson and there’ll be significant social distancing. I don’t blame him for celebrating. There’s a lot of things we could be doing with having massive crowds, but the fact is that it’s just not appropriate now. I just hope he and the vice president and others act with some dispatch and do it what everybody knows. People should be tested first before they even show up, number one. Number two, they should be wearing masks. Number three, they should be socially distanced. And number four, it shouldn’t be a huge crowd, whether it’s outside or not. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. Thank you for that incredible introduction. My name is Joe Biden. I’m Jill Biden’s husband, and I am Kamala’s running mate. You all think I’m kidding, don’t you? Folks, it gives me so much more optimism about the future to see that Maya and so many inspiring young people like Maya… That’s President Trump. He’s having trouble being heard over there. They’re a very polite bunch. Look folks, I think Maya, you’re inspiring and so many young people like you I’ve met all across America are getting so deeply involved, helping create the change that you know is possible. And of course I know you’ve had an incredible role model in Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms. I tell you what, she is something else. First of all, two things you got to know about her when you meet her. Number one, understand she’s smarter than you. That’s the first thing I had to learn. And the second thing is she’s got a backbone a ramrod, and she has a moral compass that’s true North. I really admire her. You’ve done an incredible job mayor. You’re a powerhouse of a leader and you’ve helped shape and support this campaign from the earliest days. So, I want to thank you, Mayor Bottoms, for your vision, your partnership, and your commitment to the campaign and the people of Atlanta. And thank you Common and Offset. I tell you what, I know that’s the real reason you came, the entertainment. I don’t blame you. But I tell you what, great to meet them both and for them energizing and sharing their message of hope with all of us. I also want to recognize the elected officials joining us today. Representative Billy Mitchell, representative Calvin Smyre, who have been with us from the very beginning of this campaign. And we got to send back to the United States House of Representatives, Lucy and Hank and Stanford. All three of them are first rate congresspersons because if I win I’m going to need them badly. And by the way, I think it’s important that you win as well along with Carolyn Bourdeaux. Folks, I think we’re going to surprise the living devil out of everybody this year. I can’t tell you how important it is that we flip the United States Senate. There’s no state more consequential than Georgia in that fight. You have two competitive races here at stake. You have two great candidates that are going to need all the support they can get. Reverend Warnock and Jon Ossoff, both great candidates. No, they really are. And by the way, if we had told you all a year ago or told those guys out in the street a year ago, good to see you man, told all those guys out in the street there a year ago, how competitive Georgia was going to be, you would have all looked at one another like you’re crazy. But look, it doesn’t take long for people to figure out when the game is up. When the Carney show goes through town the first time and people find out there’s no P under any one of the three shells, the next time it comes back, it doesn’t get much attention. Well, that’s what the Trump administration has done. Let’s give the people of Georgia to new senators who will fight for your interests, not for Donald Trump’s interest. And not continue as for doing others have to make fun of my running mate. I love how these guys try to degrade everything and everybody. It’s got to stop and it’s going to stop with us. Folks, it’s go time. There’s one week left. Millions of Americans, over 60 million Americans have all ready voted and millions more by the end of this week. I believe when you use your power, the power to vote will change the course of this country. Right here in Georgia, with all of you, these are the final days, so keep that sense of empowerment with you. That sense of optimism. What we can do. What we will do. What we can overcome. What we will overcome. Look folks, I’ve been around a while, but I’ve never been more optimistic about America or the American people than I am right today. But I know it’s hard. Over the past few months, there’s been so much pain, so much suffering, so much loss in America. More than 225,000 dead Americans because of COVID-19. 7,800 right here in Georgia. Millions of people are out of work on the edge. They can’t see the light at the end of the tunnel. And Donald Trump has given up. Over the weekend, his chief of staff of the White House said, I quote, “We’re not going to control the pandemic.” At the debate last week, Donald Trump looked at me and said, “We’re rounding the corner.” As my grandfather would say, “He’s rounding the bend.” He said, “It’s going to go away. We’re learning to live with it.” I told him, “We’re not learning to live with it if you’re asking people to learn to die with it. And it’s wrong.” Donald Trump has waved the white flag, abandoned our families and surrendered to this virus. But the American people don’t give up. They don’t give in and surely they don’t cower and neither will I. I will put in place a plan to deal with this pandemic responsibly, bringing this country together with testing, tracing, masking. It’s estimated that if we wore masks the next few months, by his own experts in the CDC and other agencies, if we wore this mask the next few months, we’d save 100,000 lives. 100,000. It’s estimated we lost over 135,000 lives so far needlessly because he’s done virtually nothing. But still Donald Trump refuses to listen to science. We shouldn’t be politicizing this race for a vaccine. We should be planning for its safe and equitable and free distribution when it comes, and it will. Providing for funding for PP, masks, gloves, all the things we need to set national standards for our schools and our businesses to open safely because they can. The House of Representatives already voted the money to provide for safe opening of these schools, but Trump was either locked in his sand trap in his golf course or in the bunker in the White House. He’s not brought anybody together. Think about this all if you’re old enough. Can you think of any president where there’s been a national crisis who didn’t bring all the parties together in the White House to try to solve something? He’s done nothing. Nothing. Well, I’m going to bring Democrats and Republicans together to deliver the economic relief for families, schools, and businesses. I said before, I’m not going to shut down the economy. I’m not going to shut down the country. I’m going to shut down the virus. Look, Donald Trump crashed the economy that Barack and I left him. Like everything else he’s left and inherited, he squandered it. We can build back better with an economy that rewards work not wealth. We can do it without raising taxes on the middle class. I guarantee you, no matter what you hear this president lying about, no one making less than $400,000 a year will have one penny in taxes raised. Not one penny. It’s a guarantee. But we’re going to ask the wealthiest and the biggest corporations. 91 of the top corporate companies in America paid zero federal income tax. We’re going to ask them to begin to pay their fair share. No one will pay at a higher rate than they paid at the beginning of the Bush administration. That’s who will deliver tax relief for working families, the middle class, to help them buy their first home, help them pay for their healthcare premiums or childcare or caring for an aging loved one. Trump got a Supreme Court Justice, and you know why he did it, it’s clear to everybody now, to destroy the Affordable Care Act, to take away the healthcare for 20 million Americans who have it. And over 100,000, 100,000 who are covered because they have pre-existing conditions for the first time, including 340,000 Georgians. A hundred million Americans would lose their protections for preexisting conditions, including more than 4 million here in the State of Georgia. Complications from COVID-19 are going to become the next pre-existing condition because of heart scarring, lung scarring, allowing insurers to jack up your premiums, deny coverage and women will once again be able to be charged more for their healthcare just because they’re women. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. I think it’s an American right. Look, if we all get out and vote, you’ll not only restore Obamacare, but we’ll strengthen it and build on it so you can keep your private insurance or choose a Medicare-like public option. We’ll increase subsidies and lower your premiums and deductions, out of pocket spending, reduce prescription costs by 60%. that’s to the experts are telling me, and they’ll tell you. We’re going to make sure we keep the protections for people with pre-existing conditions. And by the way, I’ll protect Social Security and Medicare. Meanwhile, Donald Trump says if he’s reelected, he’s going to change how we fund it. Ladies and gentlemen, the actuary at Social Security said if he does what he’s proposing, if he’s reelected, Social Security will be bankrupt by 2023. Go home and tell your parents who work like hell for that, what that’s coming up. Donald Trump fails to condemn white supremacy. He doesn’t believe there’s systemic racism as a problem. And he won’t say Black Lives Matter because they do. We know they matter. That’s why a season of protests broken out all across the nation. Protesting though, is not burning and looting. Violence can never be a tactic or tolerated and it won’t. But much of it is a cry for justice from a community that long had the knees of injustice on their necks. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, will not soon be forgotten. Not by me, not by us, not by this country. Folks, they’re going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. But true justice is also about jobs. Good paying jobs. The least as the mayor got done here, a $15 minimum wage and financial stability. We’re going to pass a national $15 an hour minimum wage. nobody should have to work two jobs to be above the poverty level. It’s wrong. We’re going to change it. And by the way, when we do it, what all the experts will tell you, even the Wall Street types, we’re going to raise the economy, raise the standard of living for everybody. When folks at the bottom do better, everybody does better all the way up the ladder. We’re going to give black and minority families are real shot to own a home, start a small business, send a child to college debt free so they can build wealth and pass on opportunity through the generations like everybody else who’s moved to the middle class has been able to do. We’re going to invest $70 billion in our HBCUs and minority serving institutions so students like Maya studied at Howard or students at Morehouse, Spelman, Clark Atlanta University. The future generations of proud students continue to get the very best education. And by the way, in the White House, I’ve committed, there is going to be in the outreach community, a section of The Divine Nine will be included. That’s a promise. I’ve been told that I kind of grew up with a little bit of a chip on my shoulder being an Irish Catholic kid in a town that kind of looked down on it. I tell you what, I didn’t realize I do, but I realized I do have a chip on my shoulder. When I read from serious people about eight months ago, something about how if I were elected president, I’d be the first president who didn’t go to an Ivy league school in a long time. Like somehow it meant I didn’t belong. I know Senator Harris will be the first HBCU graduate to serve as vice president. And I say it’s about time a graduate from a state university and a HBCU graduate are in the White House. Don’t tell me we can’t do it because if we’re sitting there, you will be there, too. I promise you. Folks, I’m optimistic because I know that we can meet the challenge of the climate crisis by unleashing American ingenuity and manufacturing to create millions of new high paying jobs, investing in technology and research. Folks, this is all in our capacity. We can do this. There aren’t a lot of pundits who would’ve guessed four years ago that a Democratic candidate for president of 2020 would be campaigning in Georgia on the final week of the election. Or that we’d have such competitive Senate races in Georgia, but we do because something’s happening here in Georgia and across America. People of different races, backgrounds, Democrats, Republicans, independents, they’re coming together to transcend the old divides and show it’s possible. And this is the most important election in any of your lifetimes. It’s a battle, as I said at the outset, for the soul of America, and we’re showing who we are. You and I, Reverend Warnock, Jon Ossoff, all of us. This country can’t afford four more years of Donald Trump and Mitch McConnell. They can’t afford four more years of leaders who think they’re only responsible for people who vote for them. Folks, I don’t see America that way. This has to change. It will change with me. Every American, including the guys on the other side of the fence, will be seen and heard and respected by me. If elected president, there will be no red states or blue states, there’ll only be the United States of America. I was reminded of that earlier this month when I went to the sacred grounds of Gettysburg. Abraham Lincoln taught us about the need of united nation. I was reminded of that earlier today when I was up in Warm Springs, reflecting on Franklin Roosevelt, taught us about the need to heal our nation. Folks, I’m running as a proud Democrat but I’ll govern as an American president to unite and to heal. I promise you, look at my whole career. I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do. That’s the job of a president. A duty to care for everyone. So in these final days, stay empowered, stay optimistic, stay united because you too have a sacred duty. The duty to vote. It matters. Georgia, it matters. So, please vote. Help get out the vote. Early in-person voting in Georgia goes through October 30th. If you’re voting by mail, return your ballot as soon as possible and make sure everyone you know does the same. Don’t just take yourself to the polls, bring your brother, your sister, your mom, your dad, your neighbor, your friends. Drop your ballot off in a ballot box. Visit IWillVote.com/GA to find the location in your community. And remember, remember the final words left to us by your late Congressman and my personal friend, an American hero, John Lewis. He said, “The vote is the most powerful, nonviolent change agent you have in a Democratic society.” He went on to say, “You must use it. It’s not guaranteed. You can lose it.” Use it. You have the power to win this election. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. There’s no limit on America’s future. The only thing that can tear America apart is America itself. No other nation can do it. Only America can tear America apart. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s show them who we are. We choose hope over fear, unity over division, science over fiction, and yes, truth over lies. So folks, it’s time to stand up and take back our democracy and any place, we can do it here in Georgia. We win Georgia, we win everything. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you, thank you, thank you. All right. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Let me say to the press assembled, I’m going to make a short statement here, and then I’m going over to vote with my wife and then I’ll be happy to take your questions after I vote. Okay? I just completed in here another public health briefing with my team of public health experts. We looked at the latest reported data on how it indicates that we’re on an upward slope of a bigger wave of confirmed infections than anything we experienced to date. We talked about what actions would be needed to turn this around and how it will be made worse by this administration’s declaration of surrender to the virus. And we discussed again, the vital importance of wearing masks, of protecting yourself, protecting your neighbor, and to save around a 100,000 lives in the months ahead between now and just after the first of the year. This is not political, it’s patriotic. Wearing a mask, wear one, period. We focused on the way this virus is hitting communities of color much harder, particularly black, Latino and Native American communities. We’re seeing race-based disparities across the aspects of this virus, higher infection rates, but lower access to testing and harder time quarantining safely because of their financial circumstances. Lower access to quality treatment, when they are infected and tragically higher mortality rates. One in 1,000 black Americans have died from this virus. This is a staggering statistic and 57% of black adults, 46% of Latino adults know someone who has died or been hospitalized from disease. Folks, we’ve lost more than 220,000 lives to this virus already. But this administration has just given up. Over the weekend, the White House, chief of staff Mark Meadows, went on television and admitted that they’ve waived the white flag and declared surrender. He said quote, “We’re not going to control the pandemic.” End of quote. The American people deserve so much better than this. Just look at what happened last night in Omaha, after the Trump rally ended. Hundreds of people, including older Americans and children were stranded in sub-zero freezing temperatures for hours. Several folks ended up in the hospital. It’s an image that captures President Trump’s whole approach to this crisis. He takes a lot of big pronouncements and he makes a lot of big pronouncements, but they don’t hold up. He gets his photo op and then he gets out. He leaves everyone else to suffer the consequences of his failure to make a responsible plan. It seems like he just doesn’t care much about it. And the longer he’s in charge, the more reckless he gets, it’s enough. It’s time to change. Meanwhile, yesterday, the White House science office and this stunned me, put out a statement listing ending the COVID-19 pandemic as a top accomplishment of President Trump’s first term. Top accomplishment of Trump’s first term. At the very moment when infection rates are going up in almost every state in our union, the refusal of the Trump administration to recognize the reality we’re living through at a time when almost a 1,000 Americans a day are dying. Every single day is an insult to every single person suffering from COVID-19 and every family who’s lost a loved one. There’s nothing more personal. There’s nothing more personal to an American family than their health care and the health care of their loved ones. I know all too well what it feels like to have your heart ripped out, losing a loved one too soon. To sit in the hospital bedside and feel like there’s a black hole in the middle of your chest, knowing there’s not much you can do. I and many of you know what it feels like to watch a beloved person die, why they’re dying of cancer or some other disease without having to wonder about whether you’re can pay for the medical bills or what would happen if God forbid the insurance companies were able to come in and say, ” We’re not going to cover the treatment.” And yet today, President Trump is on a single-minded crusade to strip Americans of their health care. That would only create another enormous crisis in the public health system. In two short weeks, exactly one week after the election, the Trump administration will make its case, asking the Supreme Court to strike down the Affordable Care Act quote, “In its entirety.” In its entirety. Let me say that again. They’re arguing that the entire law must fall, which would strip 20 million Americans have their health insurance overnight, rip away protections for pre-existing conditions for more than 100 million people in the middle of an upswing of a pandemic, the upswing. Look, just this week on 60 Minutes, we heard what Trump told Lesley Stahl about the upcoming Supreme Court case on the Affordable Care Act. And I quote, “I hope that they end it’ll be so good if they end it.” End of quote. There is no question. There’s no question. That’s why President Trump nominated Justice Barrett to the court. And that’s why the Republicans jammed her through confirmation in the middle of the election. Republicans have tried and tried and tried since the Affordable Care Act was passed to overturn it. And every single time they failed. President Trump has tried everything he can on his own to sabotage the law. So now through what I’d characterize as a craving abusive of political power. They’ve added to the Court of Justice who criticized Chief Justice, Roberts’ previous decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act in hopes that they can destroy the Affordable Care Act once and for all through the courts. No matter how many Americans they hurt in the process. So let’s remember exactly what’s at stake in this election. If you have diabetes, asthma, cancer, or even complications from COVID-19, you’re going to lose the protection this law provides. Insurers will once more be able to jack-up your premiums or deny your coverage. Women could again be charged more for their health care just because they’re women and children will no longer be able to stay in their parents’ insurance policies until age 26. On top of all that, overturning the ACA could mean that people have to pay to get COVID-19 vaccine once it’s available. That’s right. That’s right. The law that says insurers are required to cover vaccines for free is the Affordable Care Act. And he’s striking that down, attempting to. Unlike Donald Trump, I believe health care isn’t a privilege, it’s a right that everyone have access to it? This country can’t afford four more years of a president who thinks he’s only responsible for the wellbeing of the people who voted for him. We can’t afford four more years of a president who instead of fighting the virus, attacks doctors. I can’t get over the guy. He attacked doctors claiming their over-reporting COVID cases because they want to make more money. Doctors are over-reporting cases because they want to make money. Our doctors and nurses and our frontline health care workers are putting themselves at enormous risk every day. More than a 1,000 of them have already died in attempt to beat back this pandemic and save lives. They deserve to be treated with respect by their president. We can’t afford four more years of a president who’d rather spend his time desperately trying to strip people of their health care, and even once bothered to put forward a health care plan on his own. We can’t afford four more years of Donald Trump. And the good news is we have a chance to turn this around by voting. We have six more days left in this election and the American people have it in their hands to put this country in a vastly different path. This is my commitment to you. I’ll protect and build on the Affordable Care Act, so that you can keep your private insurance or choose a Medicare like option. You can make it stronger. I’m going to make it stronger with your help to lower premiums and deductibles. And out-of-pocket expenses. We’ll bring down drug prices, but almost two thirds by taking steps such as allowing Medicare to negotiate with the pharmaceutical companies who are making billions of dollars, making the price lower. When they negotiate, Medicare says, “We’re only going to pay you X amount for the following medicines.” That will lower prices drastically making it available to everyone. We’re going to make sure every American has access to free COVID-19 vaccine. This isn’t beyond our capacity. Now, if we come together, we can stand together. If we stand together as the United States, the United States, Democrats, Republicans and independents. We can transcend all divisions and show what’s possible. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. There’s no limit to America’s future. And if I’m elected president, as I said yesterday in Warm Springs, Georgia. I’ll be a president who is not in it for himself, but for others. A president of doesn’t divide us, but unites us. A president who appeals not to the worst in us, but to the best in us and a president who looks not to settle scores, but to find solutions. A president guided not by wishful thinking, but by science, reason and facts. Even if I win, it’s going to take a lot of hard work to end this pandemic. I’m not running on the false promise of being able to end this pandemic by flipping a switch. But what I can promise you is this, we will start on day one doing the right things. We’ll let science drive our decisions. We will deal honestly with the American people and we will never, ever, ever quit. That’s how we’ll shut down this virus. So we can get back to our lives, a lot more quickly than the pace we’re going at now. I’m going to fight to protect your health care, I promise you. Just like I fight for my own family. We can do this. I promise you, and I’m going to go do what I hope all of you do. I’m going to walk out of this building and I’m going to go vote. I’m going to go vote. There’s a lot of people on that ballot, not just me, but the down-ballot as well, that are going to change things for us. Make it better. So may God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Hello Pittsburgh. It’s good to be back. I’ll tell you what. First off, let’s honk for the outstanding band, The Funky Fly Project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And special thanks to local and state elected officials who are here. I want to thank them a lot and I want to also thank your police department. I tell you what. They got a one heck of a motorcycle escort. You know, it was great seeing Franco again. I live in the other side of the state just below that town called Philadelphia, and I get in trouble because I talk about how much I like Pittsburgh and how much I like the Steelers. Now, let me tell you why. Franco and I were just in Latrobe together last month, and Franco and his teammate, a guy named Rocky Bleier, back in the day when the Rooney’s were really wonderful to me and my family. Because just a month after I was elected the United States Senate, I was 29 years old. It was December 18th. And it was a week before Christmas. I got a phone call, when I was hiring staff in Washington, saying a tractor trailer broadsided my wife and my three children Christmas shopping, and killed my wife and killed my wife and would kill my daughter. My two boys were very badly injured. So I hustled home as quick as I could. And I stayed with them in that hospital room because they were really in tough shape. But on the 23rd, I believe it was, I decided that I was going to go out to Kmart and get a plastic Christmas tree. You know, those kinds they have on display, because you weren’t allowed to have any Christmas paraphernalia in the hospital that could catch fire, but I could get one of those. So I went out and I was only gone, it was the only time I was gone. I was gone for about, I guess, an hour, hour and a half. And I came back and both my boys for the first time, they were little guys, three and four years old, almost four and five. They had smiles on their face and each of them were holding a football signed by the entire steel curtain, the Pittsburgh team. And I said, “What happened, boys?” And they was the first time they smiled. And they said, “Rocky Bleier and Franco Harris came,” because guess what happened? The Rooneys, really fine, fine people, the Rooneys decided that they were going to send Rocky and Franco to see my boys. No publicity. They didn’t do any press. Didn’t let anybody know. he, they didn’t do any press, didn’t let anybody know, they spent 45 minutes with my boys, they got in the plane and went home. That’s who we are as a country. That’s something the President doesn’t understand, looking out for each other. The thousand acts of kindness, the decency that people used to show to one another, and still do, that he just doesn’t get. Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh there’s one more day, one more day to show who we are once again. Tomorrow we can end the presidency that has divided this nation. Folks in Homewood know, tomorrow we can put and end to a presidency that has failed to protect the nation. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has fanned the flames of hate across this nation, pouring gasoline on every racial incident in the country. Millions of Americans have already voted, over almost a hundred million now. Millions more will vote tomorrow. My message is simple, the power to change this country is in your hands. And I don’t care how hard Donald Trump tries, there’s nothing, nothing he can do to stop the people of this nation from voting, no matter how he tries. There was a press article last week, and it read as follows, “Never before in modern presidential history has a candidate been so reliant on wide-scale efforts to repress the vote as Trump.” Trump doesn’t want y’all voting. He don’t want Americans voting. He thinks only wealthy folks should vote. When America votes though, america will be heard. When America’s heard, the message is going to be out loud and clear: it’s time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home, go home. Look, we’re done with the chaos, we’re done with the racism, we’re done with the tweets, the anger, the hate, the failure, the irresponsibility, but we got a lot of work to do folks. If I’m elected president, we’re going to act, on day one we’re going to act to get COVID under control, on day one of my presidency I’ll put in action a plan that I’ve been talking about for months, masking, social distancing, testing, tracing, a plans for full and fair and free distribution of therapeutics and vaccines when we get one.
And most importantly, but he hasn’t done yet, a plan, a plan that addresses the fact that we can get everybody access to the vaccine when it comes. Folks there’s over 300 million people in America, everyone, everyone is going to get help. A plan to address the disproportionate way the virus is hitting the black community and minority communities. We’re seeing race-based disparities all across every aspect of this virus; higher infection rates, lower access to testing, a harder time, quarantine safely, lower access to quality treatment when you become infected, and tragically higher mortality rates, three times as high as the white population. One in 1000 black Americans have died from COVID so far. And by the end of this pandemic, if things continue as he’s allowing them to do until the next president takes office, there will be another 200,000 deaths projected. And that would mean one in 500 African-Americans will have died because of COVID. That is absolutely outrageous. That is an attack, a mass casualty for black Americans. And this President, he knew in January how bad this virus was, in January he knew it. Some of you may remember vaguely if you turned on the television at the time, I wasn’t in office but I was talking about the fact that he got intelligence briefings laying out how dangerous it was coming from China, and where it was happening. And he said, no he didn’t read his intelligence briefing in the morning. Well, that didn’t surprise me, he doesn’t read. But turns out he knew exactly how dangerous it was. Remember what he said to Bob Woodward, the famous journalist? He went on tape and he said to Woodward, he knew in January how dangerous it was and how many people could die, and he said nothing. He didn’t say a thing to you, me, or anybody else. He kept it secret. He hid it from the American people. He knew it was worse than the flu. He lied to the American people. He knew it wasn’t going to disappear. He kept telling us, America was coming, or maybe we should inject bleach into our veins. I mean, whatever, God, what a… anyway. And just Friday, this past Friday, had the gall to suggest that the American doctors and nurses, who are literally risking their lives to save lives on the front line of this crisis for nine months, that he suggested that these folks, know what he said they’re doing? He said, “Doctors are falsely inflating the deaths due to COVID because they want to make more money.” Now think about that, president of the United States of America. But then again, it doesn’t surprise me, he wouldn’t do anything unless he could make more money, not a joke. Everything to him is about how do you help yourself? Folks, look the people of this nation have suffered and sacrificed for nine months, none more so than our doctors and our frontline healthcare workers. And it’s the President questioning their character, and their integrity, their commitment to his fellow Americans, the President questioning that? It’s a flat disgrace. And then last night Trump said, he’s going to fire Dr. Fauci. I got a better idea, let’s fire Trump, and I’ll hire Dr. Fauci. Look, the President has waved the white flag of surrender in this virus. I’ll never do that. He’s chief of staff said last week, “We’re not going to control this virus.” We’re not going to control the virus, the first step to beating the virus is defeating Donald Trump. Look folks, if we didn’t know this was happening, and somebody made a movie about this five years ago you’d think it was all crazy, but it’s real. It’s real what’s happening. Donald Trump, by the way, he keeps telling us what a great jobs president he has been, how many jobs he’s created. Well, I was just with President Obama in Detroit, in Flint, Michigan, my buddy. It was great to be with a president with real character. A President respected around the world, a President our kids could look up to. But did you know President Obama and I helped create more jobs in the last three years of our administration than Trump did the first three years of his, even before the pandemic hit? Did you know Donald Trump is going to be the first president in 90 years who’s going to finish with his four years in office with fewer jobs under his leadership than when he started as president? And black unemployment remains too high, too many black businesses are shuttered for good. Black-owned businesses are shutting down twice as fast as other businesses, and business communities of color have shuttered because they didn’t get the help, the money that Congress has passed. Congress passed over $2 trillion. You know the first thing what the President did? He fired the Inspector General, who’s supposed to follow where the money went. And guess what? Minority businesses, small businesses, they didn’t get the help. It went to the Mar-a-Lago crowd. Not a joke, his wealthy friends. He fired the Inspector General. You know, he sees the world from Park Avenue- He sees the world from Park Avenue. I have seen it from Scranton. I see it from where I grew up. I see it from here in Pittsburgh. Wall Street didn’t build this country, working people built this country. That’s always whose built the country, the middle class, and unions built the middle class. Folks, I believe we should be rewarding work not wealth in this country. Do you all realize that just as the pandemic started, the listed billionaires in America made another $300 billion? Not a joke, $300 billion they made in the middle of the pandemic. What’s going on here, folks? Well, I’ve got a plan, and under my plan I commit to you no one making less than $400 grand is going to see a penny in taxes raised. But for a change, the wealthiest and the biggest corporations, 91 of the Fortune 500 companies pay zero in taxes after making billions of dollars. Well, guess what? Under a Biden administration, they’re going to start paying their fair share. Why should a firefighter, an educator, a nurse, a steelworker pay a higher tax rate, and this is the God’s truth, a higher tax rate than the super wealthy? And by the way, why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump? I’ve released 23 years of my tax returns. I had the dubious distinction of being listed as “the poorest man in Congress” for 36 years. And then when I got elected vice president it says, “It’s probable no man has ever assumed the office vice president with fewer assets than Joe Biden.” I assumed they weren’t speaking about intellectual assets. It could have been, but who knows? Well, look, here’s my point, Trump and the only taxes that we’ve been able to find out through the New York Times in the one year he has, he paid $750 in taxes. Trump keeps talking about corruption. When’s the last time he heard of a president having a secret bank account in China? Which he did, we just found out, where he payed 50 times more tax in China than he did in the United States. Every time he starts talking about corruption, I say, “Release your tax return. What in the hell are you hiding? What are you hiding?” Not one…. Anyway, I won’t get into it.
Look, we’re going to act to protect healthcare. Trump is going to Trump, like he just jammed through a Supreme Court nomination. You know why they did? To try to destroy the Affordable Care Act. Well, if they get their way, a hundred million Americans will lose the protections for preexisting conditions, including more than 5 million people here in the United States… I mean, excuse me, here in the state of Pennsylvania, over a hundred million in the United States. Millions of black Americans will be left uninsured and denied health coverage because of pre-existing conditions. And there are more preexisting conditions in poor communities than there are in others.
Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. I think it’s a right. Look, I’ll not only restore Obamacare, I’ll build on it. You can keep your private insurance. If you like it, you can choose Medicare like public option. I’m going to increase subsidies to lower your premiums, deductibles, out-of-pocket expenses, out-of-pocket spending, surprise billing. I’m going to lower prescription drugs by 60%, and that’s the truth. But by the way, how are you going to do it, Joe? Because those wealthy people are going to start paying their fair share.
It’s not about punishing everyone, it’s about being fair. We’ll make sure that protections for people with pre-existing conditions remain. And meanwhile, Trump said, he’s publicly said if he’s reelected, he’s going to defund Social Security payments. The actuary in social security department said if he does that, that will eliminate, eliminate Medicare by 2023, after all the who people rely on Medicare. It’s not going to happen, by the way. We’re not going to let it happen, but that’s his plan. Go home and tell your grandparents and parents, we’ll protect Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, which he won’t do. And finally, we need a vote now to deliver some racial justice in America. Look, a season of protest has broken out all across this nation. Protesting is not burning and looting and violence, that can’t be tolerated, it won’t. But those protests are a cry for justice. In the name of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, Walter Wallace, Jr., they’re not going to soon be forgotten. They’re not going to be forgotten by me, not by us, not by this country. They’ll inspire a whole new wave of justice in America.  When I met with Floyd’s family, he has a little daughter who survived him, she’s six years old, and I knelt down and I talked to her. I started talking to her. You know what she said? She looked at me, she said, “Mr. Vice President, Daddy is going to change the world. Daddy’s going to change the world.” Folks, the country is ready. The country is ready, but not with Donald Trump as president. Now he wants us to believe so much he’s done for black Americans. You might have seen the debate I had with him. I was standing next to “Abraham Lincoln”. He said, “Not since Abraham Lincoln has anyone done as much for the African American community as I have.” I turned to him and asked him, “Abe,” he got offended. He got offended. Look, Pittsburgh, honk if you think his commitment of having done more for the African-American community than Abraham Lincoln is true. Honk your horn. Silence. You got it, man. Pittsburgh, honk if you think it’s a bunch of malarkey, his lying. You got it. Look, in addition to that, think about this. Education. Education is the key to movement. Well, guess what? There’s going to be free college education for state universities when I’m your president. I’m going to triple funding. And by the way, we can afford this, I promise you. I’m going to triple funding for Title I schools so a child can get a good public education, no matter what their zip code is. Allowing every three and four and five year olds to go to school, not daycare. That increases by 58% the prospects that child will go all the way through 12 years. And honk if you agree with me. I’m going to invest $70 billion in HBCUs at minority serving institutions. For real. [inaudible 00:28:35] institutions so future generations of black students can continue to get the very best education. Look, the truth is, Donald Trump has done more harm black America than any president in modern history. This is the same man who started the Birther Movement against my buddy, Barack Obama. This is the first man, this is the man who when the first black woman running for vice president, he looks at her and he calls her a monster. Oh yeah, man. And remember on stage with him When I asked about the Proud Boys, that racist group of white supremacists. I said, “Would you deny them?” He turned and he said, “I’m going to tell them to stand down and stand by.” When in God’s name did you ever expect an American president to say, who refused to denounce white supremacy, doesn’t believe systemic racism is a problem and won’t even say black lives matter. Black lives matter. And we’re going to work to deliver real police and criminal reform, justice reform. We know, we know what true justice is all about. It’s not only about a criminal justice system that’s fair, but it’s about being able to build wealth, jobs, homes, families. Folks, we’re in a situation where, think about it, how many people you know are working two jobs and still being in poverty? We need a national minimum wage of $15 an hour for everybody, period. Honk if you agree with me. Honk if you agree with me and my proposal. Folks, Pennsylvania, 2008 and 2012, you placed your trust in Barack and me. Now in 2020, I’m asking for your trust again in me and Kamala. By the way, she is one smart, bright, tough woman, man. I’m so proud. She said yes. Look, I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president. That’s the job of a president, the duty to represent everyone, everyone. And you too have a duty. If you haven’t already voted, to vote tomorrow. Make a plan, get out to vote. Go to iowavote.com/pa and ask yourself if Donald Trump is so proud of his record, especially for African Americans, why does he make it so hard for us to vote? And then remember the final words of my good friend and American hero, John Lewis, who recently died. He said “The vote is the most powerful non-violent change agent you have in a democratic society. You must use it, because if not, it’s guaranteed you’ll lose it.” Folks, please, please. Here’s the amazing thing. Here’s the amazing thing, folks. It’s about this moment in history. On the one hand, we’re facing the biggest threats about who we are and what we believe that we’ve seen in our lifetimes. But on the other hand, our future has never been more promising. I said it many times. I’m more optimistic about America’s future today than I was when I got elected as a 29 year old kid. And I mean it. Here’s why. We’re better positioned than any nation in the world to lead the 21st century. Our workers are three times as productive as workers in the biggest economies in the world. We have the strongest military in the history of the world. We have the most innovative entrepreneurs. We’re virtually energy independent. We can do this. We’re better than we’ve been. We can be our best when we’re the United States of America. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Go vote. We can get this done, I promise you.
