Thank you very much. Hello. Oh wow. We tried to come in here very low-key. We wanted to make a low key appearance. Did anybody notice the helicopter flying a little low and real slow? No? Greatest pilots in the world. Greatest equipment in the world. That’s what we have greatest equipment in the world, but the greatest pilots, nobody can do what our pilots can do. Right, Mike? Hello, Pennsylvania. Hello, Pennsylvania. Eight days from now. Can you believe it? Eight days. Started off four years ago. Remember our meetings and it was a love fest right from the beginning, wasn’t it? And now it’s more so. You know what? It’s more so than it was four years ago. And they’re going to be finding that out very soon. They’re going to be finding it out. You know, I have the ratings right over here. Poll numbers. Thank you. Thank you very much. Joe Biden, sleepy Joe Biden said a little while ago, he was in a lid. You know what a lid is, a garbage can. They put the lid on it, they put the lid… And he saw, we had two of these today, they were fantastic. Different parts of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. And we had two of them, ann sleepy Joe was down there and they said, “You got to get out of this basement.” So he traveled from Delaware to a little tiny corner of Pennsylvania, right next to Delaware. And he made a speech. And he said that he doesn’t do these kind of rallies, because of COVID. No, he doesn’t do them because nobody shows up. That’s why. Nobody shows up. COVID, COVID, COVID. That’s all they talk about the fake news. COVID, COVID, COVID. That’s all they talk about what progress we’ve made on it too. We understand it. We know we have to protect our seniors, especially when they have heart, when they have diabetes problems and we are protecting them. We have best testing in the world. That’s why we show so many cases, because we do more testing than anybody else, but we’re doing great. And ooh, excuse me. Here I am. I’m here for you. I didn’t feel so good one day. One day I didn’t feel exactly great, Mike, a great Congressman, but I didn’t feel exactly great. And I said, “What’s the story, doc, sir?” “You’ve tested positive.” I said, “Positive for what, doc, tell me.” And I say this, a president, If you’re doing your job, you can’t stay in a basement of the White House. You can’t stay in a basement. You can’t stay in a beautiful bedroom upstairs. You can’t do that. You got to do your job. And I’d have many days, I’d say, “I’ve met a lot of people today. There’s got to be something going.” But one day they came back and these doctors were so great. And there were a lot of them. There’s so many doctors. When you’re president, there’s so many doctors and I had 12 doctors, can you believe it? I’ve never had 12. I’ve had one or two, but I’ve never had 12. And each one was a specialist in different parts of the body. And they would grab my body and I hated it. I hated it. I said, “Get your hands off me doctors. But let’s make me feel good.” And we took something that was incredible Regeneron. And I don’t know, maybe I would have just been perfect just by doing nothing, but who the hell wants to take a chance. And I woke up the next morning and I felt like Superman. Get me back. Get me back. Get me back. And the first lady had it. First lady had it and she did great. She’s great. And she is popular too. People like her. They love Melania. But she had it. Doesn’t complain about things. And then of course Barron had it. Now with Baron, young, strong immune system. He had it. I said, “What’s the story, doc, with Barron, sir?” “Sir, he tested positive.” Like 15 minutes later, “How’s Baron doing?” “Sir, it’s gone.” So you have to get back to school. We have to get back to school, Pennsylvania. You know, you have a governor who doesn’t want us to do anything in Pennsylvania, because did you see the poll just came out? We’re up two and another one, we’re up four. Because you watch, I have a whole list of the polls that just came out. But eight days from now, we’re going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. And we’re going to win four more years in our great White House. Just a few hours from now, the Senate will vote to confirm Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court. That was a good choice. Wasn’t it? I’ve never seen anything. I’m glad she’s not running for President. I’d much rather go against sleepy Joe, much easier. No, she’s fantastic. A fantastic person, fantastic woman, a great student. Her professor, her great professor at Notre Dame said, and he’s been teaching a long time, a lot of great legal minds he’s taught, he said, she’s the single greatest student he’s ever had. That was good enough for me. That was it. Highly respected person. He’s a highly respected man. He said, “Sir, she’s the greatest student I’ve ever had.” Judge Barrett is one of our nation’s most brilliant legal minds. She’ll defend our rights, our liberties and our God given freedoms. And you saw that. And we were all watching in great amusement as she was so- called grilled by the opposition. That was easy, right? That was easy. That was like one of our great football teams from the area, plenty of them, playing a high school football team. That was really something. Judge Barrett will be the third Supreme Court Justice along with almost 300, right around the number, by the time we end the first term, I’ll have 300, maybe a little more, maybe a little less, federal judges that we’ve confirmed to uphold our laws and our constitution. And part of that was that Barack Hussein Obama allowed me to have 142. We started with 142 empties. I don’t think anybody’s ever had one. You don’t do that. But he left me 142. Couldn’t get them confirmed.
To this day, Joe Biden refuses to release his list of names. You know, it’s more than just the packing the court. He’s got to say who is he going to put on, because we can’t have radical left justices that are going to destroy our nation. And we will be very, very careful as to who we choose. You know, I left a list of 45. I had a list of 25 and now I added 20 names, all top scholars, top, top scholars. And Amy was one of them. I took Amy off. And the fact is you have no idea. A lot of people say I won because of the Supreme Court, because they didn’t know who I’d pick, and I gave a list, and I said, “I’ll pick somebody like this.” And then they said, “That’s not good enough. You got to pick somebody in that list.” So ultimately it’s a list of 25, all great scholars, all people that believe in something known as the Constitution, if that’s okay. I don’t think his list will. And they say that that was a big part of the reason that we won the election four years ago. And he has to do the same thing. He’s got to not only agree to not pack the court, or you can’t put them on, it would be terrible, terrible for our nation. Even Justice Ginsburg said, “You can’t do that.” Nine is the right number. We have a Senate. We have a House, a lot of people. Nine is the right number. Nine great people, that’s the right number. But he’s got to agree to not pack the court. But he’s got to agree to give us a list of five or 10 or 20 or 30 or 40. Got to have people to pick from. And if you don’t have that list, you can’t vote for him. And you can’t vote for him for another reason, because during the debate, I’m sure nobody watched the debate. Did anybody watch the debate? The last question was like Perry Mason, was just like Perry Mason. It was at the end. He was doing great. This guy was doing so wonderful. Not really. Meaning he was getting through. And then the last one I said, “So you don’t want oil, Joe?” “Well yes, we want to get ourself off of oil.” And how about Kristen? Who I thought treated me good. I really did. I thought she, compared to Chris Wallace, much better, right? Chris Wallace, I was fighting two people. But no, I thought she treated us good. And frankly, she went in and she said, “Why did you say that?” To him, and that’s when he really blew it. So basically he’s not going to allow you to frack. And you have a million jobs and energy jobs, probably more than that. And it’s a big part of our nation what you do. People don’t realize that about Pennsylvania, but fracking is a very big deal. Who are you pointing to? Oh. Oh. Oh. Look at that. Oh boy. The coal miners, right? The coal miners. Dig must dig. Dig we must. Clean coal. I don’t call it coal. I call it clean coal. They can do more with coal now. Thank you very much. Remember when Hillary, she said we will stop all coal miners. We will never dig coal again. And then four weeks later, she ended up in West Virginia. That did not work out well for her. That was not good. Remember, she was trying to explain that she was just kidding. Just like he’s doing, just like sleepy Joe’s doing. He was just kidding. But he’s down. We just had a poll come out. We’re plus two now, you know. But we should be a lot more than that. I’m not happy with plus two. I don’t like plus two. It’s an honor. You do a great job. Dig we must. Dig we must. And we brought it back. We’re selling now coal to Vietnam and many, many places from… Are you coal miners from Pennsylvania? Good. Good. That’s good. Well, you’re not going to be voting for Joe Biden, that I can tell you. Not like he’s a sophisticated environmentalist. He was told to do this. Our opponents agenda is one of doom and gloom and depression, decline and despair. Our agenda is one of unlimited optimism. We want to be optimistic. Remember during the debate, he said, “It will be a dark winter.” No, it’s going to be a beautiful winter. It’s going to be a beautiful spring. Okay? Our country’s coming back stronger than anybody would have thought. And you have to get your governor to open up your state, what this guy is doing. You know, we had one site where we had a site, it was a big site, beautiful site, and he made sure that they didn’t do it. We had to go around scouting out for sites on our first, this is my third one, all in Pennsylvania. But this governor, but we’re going to remember it. But the problem is how is he going to be the one when he tries to play games with sites that counts ballots, right? He counts ballots. It’s the governor. And then they sued us because they didn’t want to have poll watchers. You know what a poll watcher is? They watch you count the votes. What’s wrong with that if you’re doing it straight? So we’re in court and we had a Pennsylvania judge who said, “Oh, you shouldn’t have poll watchers.” Can you believe that? We actually lost the first case, but we’ll go up and we’ll end up in the Supreme Court. The other thing they want to be able to drag out the election long beyond the third. Well, in all fairness, this is a very important place, right? And we can’t drag it out. We don’t want to drag out any longer. So we are in lots of court having to do with this and having to do with many states, about five of them. And so far, we’ve had a lot of good victories. They will continue because we’re not going to let this election be taken away from us. That’s the only way they’re going to win it. We’re not going to let them have it. For the last half century, 47 years, Joe Biden has been outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in ridiculous, endless foreign wars, countries you’ve never even heard of for the most part. Now Joe Biden is trying to ban fracking and deliver an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania’s energy sector. You can’t allow this to happen. But here’s the thing. For a year, I watched him saying, “There will be no fracking,” right? We saw with the Democrats, right? The radical left Democrats. They’re all screaming, “No fracking.” Every one of them, they couldn’t scream loud enough. And he gets the nomination because Elizabeth Warren Pocahontas refused to get out. No, had she gotten out, then crazy Bernie would have been our opponent. But I think I like Joe better because there’s no energy. I liked him. No. Bernie had a little energy, small base, lots of energy. And we had a lot of his people. You know, a lot of them with crooked Hillary, Bernie. I won’t use it because they have very young people here. He gets taken advantage of by Hillary. And then he gets taken advantage of by the Democrats the last time, with mostly Elizabeth Warren and the others. They ganged up on him. And he goes back and he goes into the Senate. I think he’s the greatest loser. He’s a really good, he’s a good loser. He’s a good sport. Crazy Bernie. And in the last week’s debate, Joe Biden confirmed his plan to abolish the entire U.S. oil industry. That’s right. And that’s why Kristen said, “Why are you doing this?” Because she’s on his side, you know, because that’s NBC owned by Concast, C-O-N, not C-O-M, C-O-N. So she’s on his side. She’s saying, “Why are you doing this?” If you really look, it’s almost pleading, “Sir, why are you doing this?” And I’m saying, just be quiet, Kristen. No, that’s what happens. That’s right. That’s what happened to Perry Mason. Remember, the guy was always great, great, great. Then at the end, I did it. I did it. That was sleepy Joe. That’s happened. You don’t need a President like that. That means no fracking, no natural gas, no coal, no jobs, no energy, no Pennsylvania families being well taken care of. Fracking is saving Pennsylvania families $2,500 a year, at least. And it’s saving families all over the country. We are energy independent and you’re a big part of it. And they want to end that. They want to go to wind. Do you love the wind? Nice windmill right alongside of your house. Your house is now worthless. You know, when those windmills go up and they’re near your house, I know a lot about wind, it cost many, many, many times the energy that we’re talking about, many, many times, like 32 cents versus 3 cents, whether it’s natural gas or other things, but many, many times. But you put up a windmill, if you want to see a bird graveyard, go under a windmill sometime. It kills your birds. Got a lot of problems. Okay? And it needs subsidy, massive subsidy. You don’t want to be giving subsidy to energy when there’s no reason to do it. So he wants wind and he wants solar. I like solar too, but it still isn’t developed. And solar’s not going to power your big, powerful plants, which we have to have in order to compete and beat the rest of the world. It’s just not going to do it and neither is wind. And neither is wind. He will eradicate Pennsylvania energy production and send your state into a crippling depression. That’s what it’s going to be because energy is such a big… People just don’t know that, Mike, about Pennsylvania. It’s a big, big energy state. Be amazed. You know, it’s funny, Texas, so he’s against oil, he’s against guns, second amendment, and he’s against God. And then they say, President Trump is four points up in Texas. And the governor calls me from Texas, great guy, Greg, he said, “Sir, that’s not true. You’re up a lot,” but they don’t say that. But think of it. You’re against oil. We’re in Texas. You’re against oil. You’re against God. You’re against guns in Texas, guns in Texas. Trump is up four points. It’s a very close race. No, no same thing here because you have the same thing. And you could really say the same thing almost to a little bit lesser extent, but the Texas was just amazing. So that’s why I said at the end, Texas and Pennsylvania, I hope you’re looking and I hope you’re listening. And that goes for Ohio. And it goes for Oklahoma. And it goes for a lot of other places.
So, you know, we had polls because the fake news is always giving fake numbers. They’re called, they’re really called suppression, suppression polls. So here they are, all brand new. Rasmussen, have you ever of Rasmussen? Very highly regarded poll. So over there we were at 53 and 52, that means it’s hard to lose you when you’re at 53 or 52. So Rasmussen, and that’s national. That’s not what I’m doing. I go to places, like Hillary used to campaign in California when it doesn’t matter. Although if I were California, I’d vote for Trump because the place is going to hell, I would vote for Trump. I would vote for Trump. Taxes are too high. Crime is too high.
New York, taxes are too high. People are fleeing. Crime is too high. I put out vote for Trump. Remember? African-American, I said the same thing, vote for Trump. What the hell do you have to lose? That was last election. Now we are doing so incredibly well with the African American, the black community, and the Hispanic community. No, it’s unbelievable. They get it. Because we did criminal justice reform. We did prison reform. We did the historically black colleges and universities. What we’ve done, opportunity zones with the great Tim Scott, Senator from South Carolina, we’ve done so much. And now the black community is strong with us. We had a poll today at 40. 40. Nobody knows what that means. Nobody knows what that means. That’s a number that nobody’s heard of with respect to the Republican. We should be much higher than that. Joe Biden is a diehard globalist who wiped out your steel mills, closed down your factories, killed your coal jobs, outsourced your industries and supported every terrible and disastrous trade deal. For more than 47 years, he was a cheerleader for NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever made. By the way, USMCA just kicked in. It’s great. USMCA is a great. It just kicked in. Your companies aren’t going to be moving to Mexico or Canada anymore. That I can tell you. Biden enthusiastically voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, decimating your manufacturing-and enriching China at your expense. And you were really one of the biggest victims. This state, you lost 50% of your manufacturing jobs after Biden’s NAFTA and China disasters. They were disasters. He signed it along with other people, but he was one of the people that pushed it. Decade after decade, vote after vote, sleepy Joe Biden has betrayed Pennsylvania, you know that. He repeatedly tried to cut social security and Medicare, you didn’t know that until a week ago when we started showing you the clips. And that was, Bernie Sanders is the one that exposed him on that. Now, after years of economic treachery, he wants to ban fracking and he’s going to. And what about his running mate? His wonderful running mate. They asked her about fracking. She’s only said about 300 times, there will never be fracking. Now she’s said, “No, Joe wants it.” But she said it was the Harris-Biden administration. That’s the first time I’ve ever heard of that one. She came first. No, she’s nothing special. She never was. I can’t believe she was picked actually. Nobody treated him worse than her. Plus she was a disaster. Her poll numbers were going so bad, she left before Iowa, right before the vote. Her poll, she started off at 12 and then she went to 10, went to eight, went to seven, went to five, went to four, went to two, went to one, went to zero. Then she said, “I think I’m going to get out of the race.” And she treated him so badly, what she called him and everything else. And then he said, “I’d like to announce that I’m going to pick Kamala to be my running mate.” You can have them both. You don’t have to take my word. We have Joe on tape. Now I only do this when a location is very important to me, because this thing costs a fortune putting up this tape, okay? But look at this crowd, so you can watch what Joe says. Go ahead, please roll the video. Oh, what a crowd. This is some crowd. Wow. This is a big crowd. Well, thank you very much. This is a great crowd. We have a lot of great crowds. It’s something happening. You’re going to see that on the third, although the Supreme Court would probably like to delay it for a long time it looks like, but we’re going to have a tremendous victory. It’s going to be a victory like none other. It’s the most election of our lives. Hello, Michigan. How are you doing, Michigan? How are you doing? It’s cold, but I feel very warm in this group. This a great group. Four days from now, we are going to win this state and we are going on to win four more great years in the White House. We’re going to have it. We’re going to have it. Unless there’s something that we don’t see. I’m watching these Biden rallies. It’s like there’s nobody. Of course, he says that they want to do it that way on purpose. The problem is nobody shows up. They were putting on the screen our rally, that’s you, you’re all famous, very famous. And his rally, there was nobody. At least he’s doing a rally. He got out of the basement so that’s good. With your support, we will continue to bring back your jobs, cut your taxes, cut your regulations. Support our great police, support our military, defend our borders, protect the second amendment, which is under siege. Protect always religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with the wonderful phrase. You know what it is? Made in the USA. That’s happening more and more. Thanks to our historic campaign to slash red tape and mobilize industry. We will deliver a safe vaccine to the American people in just a number of weeks, a couple of weeks. It’s happening very fast, great companies. The greatest companies of their kind in the world. And we’ve got plenty of them there too. Seniors will be first. We make seniors first, right? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. They say, “Will you be the first one to take it? You know it’s a no-win situation. If I say yes, “They’ll say he demanded to be first.” If I say no, they’ll say, “He had no courage.” Now we’re going to take care of our seniors first. We’re going to take care of our doctors and frontline workers, everybody. And by the way, without it, we’re still rounding the corner. We have it, but without it, we round the corner and it will be available free. We’re doing the vaccine free. And the reason is that this wasn’t your fault. This wasn’t anyone’s fault. This was China’s fault. Seniors will be first. We make seniors first, right? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. They say, “Will you be the first one to take it? You know it’s a no-win situation. If I say yes, “They’ll say he demanded to be first.” If I say no, they’ll say, “He had no courage.” Now we’re going to take care of our seniors first. We’re going to take care of our doctors and frontline workers, everybody. And by the way, without it, we’re still rounding the corner. We have it, but without it, we round the corner and it will be available free. We’re doing the vaccine free. And the reason is that this wasn’t your fault. This wasn’t anyone’s fault. This was China’s fault. Seniors will be first. We make seniors first, right? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. They say, “Will you be the first one to take it? You know it’s a no-win situation. If I say yes, “They’ll say he demanded to be first.” If I say no, they’ll say, “He had no courage.” Now we’re going to take care of our seniors first. We’re going to take care of our doctors and frontline workers, everybody. And by the way, without it, we’re still rounding the corner. We have it, but without it, we round the corner and it will be available free. We’re doing the vaccine free. And the reason is that this wasn’t your fault. This wasn’t anyone’s fault. This was China’s fault. Just remember it. Our vaccine will eradicate the virus much more quickly and end the pandemic quickly, quickly, quickly, because we want to have our life restored. Just a normal. That’s all we want. That’s all we want, normal. We just want normal. Bring us back seven months. That’s what we want, right? And that’s what the whole world wants. Look what’s happening in Europe. It’s terrible. It’s terrible. What China has done to this world and just remember it, just you remember it. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. You see what’s happening. 33.1%. Nobody can blame you. They can’t believe it. They don’t like talking about it. You know they don’t like talking about it. They have a new thing going. It’s called … Thank you. Thank you. You hear that, Ben Carson? You hear that, Ben? I’ll tell you. Nobody’s ever heard that before politically. Maybe for Ben Carson. I don’t know, maybe. I love Ben Carson. Thank you, Ben and Candy. Thank you. Thank you, Candy. Joe Biden is promising a long, dark, painful winter. Did you see him at the debate? Did anybody see the debate by any chance? No, he said, “A long, dark winter.” Oh, that’s great. That’s wonderful. That’s just what our country needs is a long, dark winter and a leader that talks about it. I didn’t have the privilege of going to my basement in the White House. I didn’t have the privilege of going to a beautiful room on the second or third floor and staying there for a year and a half because I’m president of the United States. So I didn’t have that. I had to do my job. And I said, “You know, I could catch this thing. And if I do, I do, and I’m going to get better fast.” I didn’t know I was going to get better that fast. That was pretty good. That was like in and out. And I had a dose. I wasn’t feeling great, but I got better. And it used to be they would say, “You have lifetime immunity.” You’re immune. Now it’s different. Because it’s me they say, “I’m good for four months.” Okay? They brought it down from lifetime to four months, but that’s okay. I’ll take it. But you know what? You have to do your job. You have to get back. You have to open up your states, right? You have to open up your states. We got to get our governor to open up our state here, don’t we? Ah, don’t worry. On November 4th, they’ll announce all these states, all these Democrat run states will be open. Not me. Not me see. They blame me every time that happens. Every time I mentioned her name, Crooked Hillary’s name, Joe Biden’s name frankly. And where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? There’s Hunter right there. He’s out by the truck. Look at him make a couple of bucks Hunter. Hunter’s done very well for an unemployed person for years. For years unemployed and then he hit pay dirt. His father became vice president and Joe had pay dirt too. That’s part of the problem. I’m delivering the great American comeback. That’s what we’re doing. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world. Best unemployment numbers, best everything. We had 160 million people employed. We were never even close to that number. And then one day we saved two million lives. We had to close it up. How about that decision? Oh, how horrible to have to make it. We understood the disease. We learned the disease. We have to protect our seniors, especially if they have problems with the heart or diabetes. We opened it up and now we’re at a level. I used to talking about the V, this is a super V. This is the biggest number, 33.1. And the news doesn’t want to talk about it because it’s positive. They only want to talk about negative when it comes to us. But 33.1, the biggest number in our country’s history by like double, but it’s much more than double. And you’d have to go back to 1952 to get anywhere close, but you know what close is? About a 17-point spread. This election is a matter of economic survival for Michigan because Joe Biden. Look at what they did during their eight years. And you know I said during the debate, 91 to nine, 91 to nine. You know what that means? That was a poll. How did Trump do in the debate? 91% for Trump, nine. Nine sisters. Look at these beautiful sisters, huh? They like Trump, but I liked them. They even have a Trump flag. Look at that Trump flag. That’s beautiful. It’s so beautiful. And you know we’re working very hard with Little Sisters of the Poor, right? You know about that. Your friends. That’s great. That’s great. It’s great to have you. Thank you very much. Joe Biden is going to lock down your state, wipe out your factories, ship out your jobs, bring things to China whatever they can, punish your family with a trillion. Think of this. A trillion dollars times four, $4 trillion tax hike. We gave you the biggest tax reduction in the history of our country. That’s the good news. The bad news is he wants to give you the biggest tax hike in the history of our country. He wants to eliminate private healthcare. We have 180 million people who have private health care. They’ve fought for it all their lives. They have great, great healthcare. He wants to end it and it’s not going to happen. We’re not going to let it happen and send your state into a very deep recession. But see, I think it’s worse. I think it’s depression. I just hate to use the D word. Let me just tell you something. How good have I done in bringing car companies here to Michigan? You went 42 years without a car plant. You were losing all your plants. 12 years ago, I was named Man of the Year of Michigan. Can you believe it? Long before I thought about it. And I got up and I made a speech. I said, “You’re losing all your car business. Somebody gave me a list. You lost 32% of your car business to Mexico and other places.” And now we’re bringing it all back. You have many, many factories now under construction, expansions of existing. You haven’t had that ever. And then Biden. And remember this, I only ran because of Biden and Obama. If they did a good job, I wouldn’t have run. And I guess I wouldn’t have won either, but I wouldn’t have run. They did a lousy job. I watched them now. “I’m going to do this. I’m going to do that.” What the hell didn’t he do it? Why didn’t he do it? Sleepy Joe and that was when he was a little bit better, a little bit more awake. He’s going to do what he hasn’t done in 47 years. I’m going to do it. That was so easy that debate because he hit me with, “I am going to do this.” And I just kept saying, Joe, “Why didn’t you do it?” And it was three and a half years ago. It wasn’t like a long time. It was three and a half years ago. Biden has vowed to abolish the entire US energy industry, right? No fracking. Guy went for a year and a half. No fracking, no fracking and then he goes to Pennsylvania. “Of course, we’re going to frack.” And the press, the fake news never asks him about it. No energy and you’re going to have gas prices. This is not great for selling your beautiful cars. Gas prices of $6 and $7. Right now it’s nice to be under $2, isn’t it? You never thought you’d see that. You never thought you’d see that. Biden’s running made America’s most liberal Senator. She makes Bernie look like a conservative. Crazy Bernie is like a conservative compared to her. She even Kamala, you have to pronounce it exactly right, otherwise she gets very upset. Even though she can’t pronounce it right. You saw that the other day. I think that was actually, that was on the great Laura Ingraham Show. Actually, I watched that. And I do believe Laura Ingraham is here someplace. Where is Laura? Where is she? Where is Laura? I can’t recognize you. Is that a mask? No way. Are you wearing a mask? I’ve never seen her in a mask. Look at you. Whoa, she’s being very politically correct. Whoa, whoa. I’ve never seen. Laura Ingraham. She’s fantastic. Thank you, Laura. Ah yes. I’ve never seen that before, but even sponsored the ruinous Green New Deal. How about that? Knowing nothing about the environment. It’ll cost a $100 trillion. Does you know what a 100 trillion? Let me put it this way. You could take all the countries in the world, that can’t afford it. While I’m president, America will proudly remain energy independent. You know we’re independent now. We don’t need to be going all over the world. We don’t need to be going all over the world. Biden will eradicate the economy. I will eradicate the virus and make the economy better than it’s ever been. That’s where we were. Now we’re doing it again. And let’s face it, he’s shot. Do you agree with that? I can say that. I’m not a fan of his, never was. He was never known as the smart one in the Senate. He was a touchy-feely guy, a little personality. He had a good personality. Now the personality’s gone and a lot of other things are gone. He’ll deliver poverty, misery, depression. I will deliver jobs, jobs, jobs, good ones too. Yesterday it was announced that last quarter when our economy, you know when this was announced, it was a tremendous announcement. The problem with it was that we didn’t get the kind of coverage that we should’ve. So in the history, think of it, in the history of our country, GDP went up to 33.1 in the history. And it was hardly mentioned. It’s amazing.. a friend of mine, very smart said to me, “Oh, they won’t talk about it.” It’s never been done before, right? “They won’t talk about it because they don’t want you to win because they’re sick and they’re corrupt. They don’t want you to win.” In the last five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million jobs. The most jobs in a short period of time ever created. And we also built the greatest economy in history and now we’re doing it again. See all those hats? Make America great again again. Make America great again again. But if Biden wins, the recovery will end and a long economic nightmare. Just like he said on the debate, “You’re going to have a dark winter.” That was really depressing. It was even depressing even though he did so badly in the debate, I was depressed because I said, “It’s such a depressing thing he said.” I like the last statement the best, right? Wasn’t that the best? We said, “That means you don’t want oil.” “Yes, we are going to get off oil.” I said, “I felt like Perry Mason.” You know it’s always that last question. It’s always the last question you know the guy, “Yes, I’m guilty. I’m guilty.” And then they end the show or they go to a commercial. I said, “This is the biggest thing that happened tonight.” And even Kristen Welker who I thought did a fair job. Okay? I really did. A lot of people thought she was much tougher on me, but that we expect. Okay? And she looked at him and she goes because she’s on his side, not his side, she’s on a Democrat radical left side, but she still did a relatively fair job. She said, “Why did you say that?” It’s like why? Like, “Why the hell did you say that? What the hell is wrong? I’m protecting you all night and now you end the debate. Can we keep it going for another 20 minutes?” No, I didn’t want to do that. Joe Biden spent the last 47 years outsourcing new jobs, opening your borders. He wants open borders. You don’t have borders, you don’t have a country. And sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars. We’re bringing them all back home, many of them home. Very, very few left. Were bringing them home. Got to fight the military-industrial complex. Eisenhower would talk about it all the time. The military-industrial complex. They don’t like them coming home, but they’ve been brought home and Afghanistan. 19 years I think as long enough, but we’re serving as policemen, right? We got the greatest soldiers in the world. We’re serving as policemen. They have to have their own policemen. We have our own policemen. They’re the greatest people we have, right? The greatest. They’re the greatest people we have, right? The greatest. He’s a diehard globalist who cares nothing for the working people. He’s never cared for the working people. China’s been ripping you off for years, now you know why. He gets paid by China. He repeatedly tried to cut Medicare and Social Security. Over the years, Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA, sending your auto jobs all over the place, but in particular to Mexico. Mexico is a big auto monster right now. USMCA, we did such a good job on that one. He voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. One of the worst things that ever happened to our country. The best thing that ever happened to China. They were flatlined, and then they joined and they went like a rocket ship. Thank you very much, Joe. Great job you did, Joe. Gutting your industries to finance China’s rise. You see it. They still have empty buildings around. From your state in particular. Half of all of Michigan auto manufacturing jobs were eliminated. Think of it. You lost 50% of your jobs because of these guys. It’s him and his group. And then he says, “We’re going to do this.” He’ll come and say, “Yes, we did this.” He did nothing. He destroyed your industry. But I brought it back and you are doing great. And now, amazingly, and I still haven’t figured this, one auto production’s much higher than it was before the pandemic. Could somebody in the auto business please explain that one to me? Because I’m taking full credit for it, but even I don’t get that one. I think you’re at 130%. You’re at 130%. Look at that sea of people, I hope they can hear me over there. Housing starts and housing sales. It’s incredible. But the auto, it’s at a number that nobody can believe. You’re doing good. In other words, you’re all doing good. It’s a pandemic and you’re doing good. You got to get this governor. You got to get her to open. I am so tired of watching her husband go sailing. He wants to go sailing. He’s saying, “Darling, open up this state. I want to go sail.” But he was doing it before. And fortunately he got caught. Remember, he got caught? His neighbors turned him in. Can you believe it? At every turn… I don’t think she likes me too much. What do you think? Do you think she likes me? I don’t think she likes me too much. And I’ve done a great job for her. You know what, on COVID, the China Virus, I’ve done a phenomenal job for her. At every turn Biden twisted knife into the back of Michigan workers and workers all over the country. In 2016, Michigan voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first, if that’s okay. Is that okay? If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than any president has ever fought for the great people of this country. I’m not just running against sleepy Joe Biden, I’m running against the left wing media, the big tech giants. You see how crooked they are. How crooked are they? They made a mistake by not putting it… Here, you have the biggest story there is, corruption by Joe Biden. Forget about the son, by Joe Biden. But the son, the same thing. Look, even if Joe didn’t get the 10%, or the 50%, that he was promised, listen to this. The son walks in. He had nothing. He had no experience. He gets a job for 130,000 a month on Burisma, and he gets, they say, a $3 million upfront payment. That sounds reasonable. Would anybody else take that job? A month. And he knew nothing about energy. Other than that, it sounded fine. Then he goes to China, he picks up $1.5 billion, he gets fees on that. That’s millions of dollars a year. And then they give him three and a half million from Moscow. The mayor of Moscow’s wife gives him three and a half million. You don’t even hear about this, because they refuse… In fact, they just turned the cameras off. They refuse… You can’t have a scandal if they don’t report it. So the Times and the Washington Post and all of the fake news, CNN, look, they turned the cameras off. [crosstalk 00:04:50]. It’s a terrible thing. They turned the damn cameras off. You know what happened? They go, “We’re here live at Joe Biden..” He’s doing a thing. There’s nobody there. I’m looking. They’re showing the sea of people, 25,000 people. They’re showing it’s like a sea, and the other one their looking and there’s nobody there. But they’ve gone to that rally, and Fox has gone to. I don’t know what the hell happened to Fox. What happened to Fox? Boy oh boy. Well, we still have a few great ones at Fox. We still have a few great ones. It’s not like it used to be. Biden is the… That’s one of the biggest differences between this campaign and the campaign from four years ago. We’re doing better now than we ever did. There’s more enthusiasm. The crowds are much bigger. There’s more enthusiasm. But Fox is the big difference. Somewhere along the line we lost Fox, and that’s okay. That’s all right. But that’s the big difference. The big techs, I’ll tell you, the big techs are much worse. When I heard how bad they were and I heard you can’t win without them, they’re so powerful. And then we won. I said, “Why are they powerful?” Now they’ve gone totally nuts. Mark Morgan, one of our top people in the border, we’ve had a great border, he was showing how great the wall is. You know, we’re almost finished with the wall and how it’s working. And he said the success, you’ve probably heard this, he said the tremendous success that we’ve had… And all he’s doing is he’s not talking as a politician. He’s so proud of the job because people aren’t getting into our country, murderers and rapists and all, they’re not coming into our country anymore. We’re working very closely with Mexico. They have 27,000 troops on the border. And Mark Morgan is explaining how great this wall has been. It’s going to be finished very soon, much sooner… They’re going crazy because they never thought we get it built. That’s why they don’t talk about it anymore. They don’t talk about the wall. They used to talk about it. Now they don’t talk about it anymore. But Mark is talking about how incredible the border security… And they took down his tweet and they wanted to close him up. All he’s doing is saying we’re doing a good job and he’s not a politician. He’s saying he’s doing a good job. They took down his tweet and they got the hell knocked out of them, and they put it back up, I understand. But this is really bad. They don’t do that to liberals. They don’t do it to liberals. They don’t ever do it. They don’t touch them. It’s very unfair. And a lot of things are happening. Biden is the candidate of anarchists and rioters and looters and gun grabbers, flag burners. We out to put people in jail for a year when they burn our flag. What the hell is that all about? I see them burning a flag. They ought to have, you burn the American flag, you go to jail for one year. It would be amazing. I signed the law. You knock down a statue or a monument, you go to jail for 10 years. It’s amazing how that stopped. It’s amazing how that stopped, isn’t it? But it’s the lobbyists, special interests. I’m the candidate of police officers, the middle-class, law-abiding hardworking American patriots, and others. I mean, look, I think I’m the candidate of everybody. I think you got everybody here. I know a couple of rich people. Get them the hell out of here, we don’t want them.
This election will decide whether we restore the rule of a corrupt political class or whether we declare that in America we are still governed. We are the people. We govern. We govern. We’re the boss. We’re the people. My opponent supported the job killing Transpacific Partnership. Would have destroyed your automobile business. And I ended it immediately. In fact, crooked Hillary was in favor of it and when she heard me speak about it, she immediately turned against it, but she would have done it. He supported the horrendous South Korea Trade Deal that was supposed to produce 250,000 jobs. And it did, for South Korea. It wasn’t so good for us. I read negotiated it. We made it good. We made it good. We kept the 25% chicken tax. You know about the chicken tax, right? That’s on the small trucks. And you’re doing well with small trucks. That’s your best product from a profitability standpoint. It would have been a tremendous crushing blow to the auto workers. And I want to thank the auto workers because despite your leadership… Your leadership stinks, I’ll tell you. All they want is their dues. Pay us dues. They want an increase in dues. They like their life. They like this. But the workers, the auto workers, they support me like crazy. The Teamsters, you have this guy Hoffa, he calls up, can you help him with a trucking company, some trucking company, big, beautiful company, great people, many, many thousands of employees. Can you help us with that? And I said, yeah, I can probably do it. I worked it out so that people didn’t lose their jobs. It kept the company going. I was very proud of it. I thought it was great. Then I see he’s endorsing sleepy Joe Biden. Biden can’t get arrested. Although actually that’s turning out to be true. He can’t get arrested. We got to think about that one. He’s endorsing Joe Biden, but you know who’s endorsing me? You know who likes me? The teamsters like me, and everybody, all of the workers like me. Maybe he won’t run. I don’t think he’d win anyway if he ran. Biden even supported the outrageous Fuel Economy Standards. You know that? That’s where every little ounce they suck every… For half a glass of gasoline, which we have plenty of right now, we have so much we don’t know what the hell to do with it. We had gasoline at one point selling for so little that if you took a barrel of gasoline, they gave you $36 with the barrel. It only lasted for two hours. But I was thinking about leaving government to go an get into that business. That’s when the pandemic came in and all of a sudden people weren’t driving cars, et cetera. Little things like that. But we have a lot of gasoline. We have a lot of energy. We have great energy and we believe in all forms of energy. But when they want to turn off our great factories by doing what they’re doing, with people like AOC plus three, telling us how we’re supposed to run our country.  AOC plus three, I don’t think she ever went… She went to a college, right? Did she ever take an environmental course? All of a sudden she’s saying no more  no more. I reversed each and every one of those disasters. Now Biden wants to reinstate it. He wants to re-institute… It took 20, 21 years, many highways and roadways, simple roadways, would take 20 years to get. I have it down to two years. It’s going to be one year and they may get rejected for environmental reasons or safety reasons, but now we’re building roads. We’re doing things that we could never have done before. A vote for Biden is a vote to extinguish, demolish, and wipe out Michigan’s auto industry. And many of your other industries. Many of your other industries. A vote for me is to keep and create auto jobs and all sorts of jobs in Michigan, where they belong. I ended the NAFTA nightmare and replaced it with a brand new USMCA. Just kicked in. It just kicked in. You know how I know it’s good? Because Mexico and Canada aren’t so happy. They said, “Couldn’t we keep NAFTA?” I said, “No.” They said, “.ell, we want to. We demand it.” I said, “Okay, that’s okay. We’re going to put a 25% tariff on every car you send in.”
They said, “Like I said, wouldn’t we like to see the USMCA done?” No. I said to them, “If you want to keep it, you can. But I’m going to tariff the cars that come into this country.” So we made a great deal. We made a deal that’s good for Michigan and good for every… But just kicked in. Great for the farmers. It’ll bring tens of thousands of new jobs to Michigan. It’ll bring hundreds of thousands of new jobs to our country. And we won’t be ripped off like we were. And it’s a big disincentive for a company to go and close up their doors and move to Mexico, move to Canada. Now, if you do that, there’s a big price to pay. That’s probably the primary reason I ran, if you want to know. I ran it for a lot of reasons. I ran because the last administration was no good, period. I say it all the time, Joe, I wouldn’t have run if it wasn’t for you. You guys were so bad, I ran. When GM went bankrupt Biden and Obama threw the workers at Delphi Corporation… Any Delphi people here. Are you Delphi? Where’s Delphi? I tell you, I guarantee you they’re voting for Trump, right? They threw these people under the bus and days ago, I signed an order to restore the pensions and all of the other things for workers, not only Delphi, in Wisconsin, Ohio, and Michigan, who were treated very unfairly, right? Good. I figured if we had none here, I would have just said to hell with it. That’s good. All right, you’re going to be taken care of. They were promised by Obama. They were promised by Biden, actually, but then Biden realized he didn’t understand the deal. He wasn’t smart. He tried. He tried. Joe tried. He’s having a hard time. I tell you, I see these people and the level of viciousness. You see this character in 16 minutes, screaming, Savannah Guthrie screaming, screaming, all of them screaming. And then I see sleepy Joe walk out. “What flavor ice cream is it?” He looks down. He actually had a hard time with that question. I said, they don’t ask me questions like that. They don’t do it. How about when they give them the questions? That’s worse, when he reads them off. They give him a question. This is the people I deal with all the time. They’re crazy maniacs. I deal with them all the time. They ask me things that are just terrible. I’ve been doing this for a long time. They asked me very, very dangerous, horrible questions. And with him, it’s like, they give him the questions in advance and he puts it on a teleprompter. Just like that. They give him a question. Then he goes, “Could you move that a little closer?” And when I see that, I said, that means that he has the questions. Not since the Hillary Clinton scandal, when she got… Remember? Who now that wonderful person that did it, Donna Brazile, is now working for Fox. So that was a great hire. That was a great hire. Let’s hire Donna Brazile, who got fired by CNN and gets hired by Fox. What’s that all about? Do you think there’s some changes going on at Fox? I don’t think so. I don’t think so. Let’s hire the person that cheated with Hillary Clinton. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. The Biden family is looking more and more like a crime family and they don’t want to. It’s called the laptop from hell. The laptop from hell. They took millions of dollars from the Chinese Communists while Vice-President Biden shipped Michigan jobs to China. How the hell can you have somebody fighting for you against China? And he’s getting money. Him and his family are getting millions and millions of dollars from China. Yesterday, press reports, I don’t know about this, but press reports came out yesterday, said the Biden family is under FBI investigation for a long time for money laundering. For money laundering. If Biden wins, China… How do you have it where they’re getting millions and millions of dollars from Communist China, and then he’s going to be your president and he’s going to make a deal like I do? Nobody has done what I’ve done, including GS Steel, where they were dumping steel. And I charged them a tariff of 25%, and our steel companies came back. And the 25% was just the beginning. But our steel companies come back. I mean, they all came back. When we win, Michigan wins. When we win, America wins. And that’s what I want. That’s all I want. That’s all I want. I had a very good life before this. People think this is easy. You make a telephone call and these really dishonest people they impeach you on a perfect call. “How you doing? Congratulations on your win.” A man, I never even spoke to. “I’d like to congratulate you on your win.” He just became the President of Ukraine. Let’s impeach him for that. These people are sick. But you know, the Republicans stuck together. 

